# Introduction to Markdown

## What is Markdown?

From [Daring Fireball](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/):
> Markdown is a text-to-HTML conversion tool for web writers. Markdown allows you to write using an easy-to-read, easy-to-write plain text format, then convert it to structurally valid XHTML (or HTML).

What does this mean?

Everything on the web is displayed in a format called HTML. Put simply, the content that you see on a website is the rendered form of page's HTML.

If you've ever tried writing content (text, headers, images, links, etc.) in HTML, you've probably thought typing out all those open and close tags was tedious. Markdown simplifies the process of displaying content by simplifying the formatting required to display the *exact same content*.

For example, compare the content on this page to the HTML. This file was written in Markdown, and is converted by GitHub to HTML to display on this page. To view the HTML that was generated by GitHub, press `CRTL-shift-I` or `CMD-shift-I`. You can view the raw markdown by pressing the "Raw" button on the page you're viewing this file in. Which one looks more complicated?

## Usages

Markdown has a variety of usages, the most common being the one stated above: to create content in a way that's simple to write and edit. Apart from GitHub READMEs, markdown can be converted to HTML on websites with content (like our team website!) through a [static site generator](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/static-sites-are-back-24d01a01f11a).

The best way to learn Markdown is through practice. The next lessons will have examples and practice problems to acquaint you with markdown formatting.
